well they're promoting girls education
the UN as well but it's the day of the
girl child and they're focusing also on
the lack of women training and science
and technology fields you just heard
Julia say most of her physics class is
full of boys and that's the case in many
Western countries while girls often do
better maths and science while at school
than their male counterparts that lead
is not translating into their chosen
professions so let's have a look at some
of the details and 2010 only 15 percent
of u.s. computer science undergraduates
were female and only 10 percent of
Internet entrepreneurs across the world
are women yet 30 percent of the best
paid jobs for women are in the
technology sector I'm pleased to say
women are bucking the trend though with
me here in the studio is Ann Marie and
Frieden who is the founder of the group
stem nets which works to encourage women
to study science and technology and Roma
Agarwal she's a structural engineer who
has been working on London's famous
building The Shard
thank you both very much for being with
us why do you think it is an murid that
girls just don't seem to follow through
on that science and maths when they are
good at it I think figures there is no
role models and their visible role
models they don't see it's something
that they can go into or as a profession
that works with that works for them or
maybe fits into maybe the stereotyping
for their gender so from very early we
see that girls are given kind of pink
toys and dolls toys rather than cars and
trucks and kind of Lego and mechanic to
play with so we see a lot of that and
but also there are a number of girls who
maybe a fear for the fact that if they
are working in technology or in science
they won't be able to also be a good
mother for example be a good woman I'll
be able to fulfill some of their other
roles so they does that and has come
from there - you must seem bizarre when
you it does it does seem really bizarre
but I think it definitely comes from
media and kind of the images that put
two girls early on they don't see women
scientist for example in television or
in the media or anywhere else where they
kind of get these images coming in so
for them it isn't compatible being
working in technology and kind of being
like computer coder in a darkroom
doesn't fit with being a mother or
doesn't fit with being a woman or
doesn't fit with you know being happy
and successful and so you you were one
of three girls out of 70 I think so
math and computer science at university
yeah what was that like I was used to it
often when you're the only going in
class you're the only girl before you go
to university and when you're studying
when you're younger
so university just a continuum of that
and even in industry you're often the
only woman in the room so it's not
really you're not really it's not really
an issue at all you're not in your head
room you agree this your experience as
well yeah absolutely so I'm a structural
engineer and I think we are on average
in the industry about seven or eight
percent women in the industry my
companies work better with twenty
percent women but I'm very very often
the only woman in the room and often
lots of the youngest is it different
though in India where maths and science
and girls the mix seems to be a bit
better absolutely I think I was brought
up in India so I lived there until I was
16 and the fact that I love maths and
science was not strange it wasn't out of
the norm we all studied it together and
so I'd like to see that mentality kind
of brought forward to lots more
countries as well Emory I think it's
okay if I tell people that you ask
somewhat of a genius is that what it
takes
in order to achieve so do you have to be
that good absolutely not
um I'd say I'm not really that much in
Virginia sir you don't have to be genius
to succeed within Sam they've got a
master's from Oxford University at the
age of 20 and I guess that was just I
was I was fortunate enough to be
nurtured and to be allowed to explore my
passion I know two passes by my parents
and by those around me you know it was
it was strange but it was a Murray's
think that was what a Murray was allowed
to do she was an exception so it was
fine I didn't play with dolls houses all
you know like pink it was fine that I
was taking apart my dad's tape player
and putting it back together and run the
who encouraged you was that your
teachers your parents a combination of
both yeah I think my parents again so my
dad used to sit me and my sister down
every Sunday morning in our living room
and we used to put together Lego toys
and Meccano and so on and I'm structural
engineering she's an architect's I'm
sure that's had a huge impact on us you
were just saying about 7% of women that
engineers here in the UK it's 9% we've
got some pictures of the shard which
you've worked on now one of the most
famous and iconic buildings in the world
was that a very male environment for you
to work in and was that off put a little
I don't find it off-putting and it you
know my office is very mixed it's very
normal
to be in a room with a mixed group of
people I think on-site is definitely
more male dominated and I think it comes
down to having confidence and that's
definitely something that I've had to
develop over the years do you think
women have issues across the board with
confidence I think they do and so I
think I think some women do find it
different kind of posture and be
shouting I guess and is that your way we
raised oh that's an interesting question
I think some women are raised that way
um definitely again kind of societal
level it's kind of you're the submissive
one you're the slightly more quiet one
you only speak when you're spoken to I
think sometimes we see quite a lot of I
mean Romer you may've heard of this book
lean in by Cheryl Sam's and that phrase
now is banded around a lot I mean do you
see woman enough woman leaning in and
not enough I would love to see more and
I'm quite a fan of the book actually and
I took the advice about sitting at the
table quite literally not very many days
ago so I think it's very important I
think we have to push ourselves even if
we seem to be quite confident in
ourselves and often there's an internal
struggle inside you know trying to push
us forward more so that's something we
need to work on and Marie how do men
react to your intelligence and so
normally they think I'm they don't
expect me to turn up I remember at work
and there's one person I met who was
expecting me to kind of look a little
bit more geeky I guess with the glasses
and everything he looked a little bit
more I don't know what he was expecting
to be honest a some people and sometimes
are intimidated but I think for others
it's they recognize me as someone who
does have something to say something
smart to say to bring to the table and
where do you feel you have to be better
and smarter and not necessarily I think
it comes down to the confidence again I
think if we've got an opinion that we
want to suggest to the table we need to
just speak up and I think if it's valid
you work very well prepared and you know
what you're talking about then they will
listen to you and respect it it is so
fantastic to hear both your stories I
think you're both fantastic that's great
head you hear thank you for sharing with
us